▞Wiki
▞Author Flaminglog
▞Class Keter

Level 4/3652 clearance required. SCP-3653 cover entry is not to be altered without O5 approval.

▞ Special Containment Procedures

Due to its nature, SCP-3653 cannot be conventionally contained. Four times per year, 1200 D-class personnel scheduled for termination are to be selected, launched into space aboard a standard Foundation cruiser, and accelerated to at least 0.9999c³. Due to time dilation, this act substantially increases the amount of time experienced by these D-class.

It has been theorized that, within SCP-3653's perception, there appear to be far more humans aboard the cruiser than there actually are. This is a diversion intended to direct the focus of the entity away from Earth. The direction of travel is unimportant, and so close orbit around Sagittarius A*⁴ has been the destination of each cruiser.

▞ Description

SCP-3653 is a hostile extra-dimensional entity which partially consumes the ability of sapient beings to experience time. The portion of experienced time consumed by the entity has been steadily increasing for as long as records exist. Since the current containment measures have been put into place, the measured rate of consumption has decreased measurably, though only slightly.

Methods for reversing the damage done by SCP-3653 are unknown, though research is ongoing.

Methods to destroy SCP-3653 are unknown, though research is ongoing.

This constant rate of consumption allows for astronomical measurements and seasonal changes to remain in sync with the 365 day calendar, for those who are not inoculated. The removal of roughly two weeks from the end of each month is an artifact of the way time is measured, and does not reflect actual "missing weeks."

The calendar described in the cover entry, hereby SCP-3653-1, creates a mnestic effect for the person observing it, if observation happens on January 1st. This effect prevents SCP-3653 from consuming any of the person's experienced time, and allows the viewer to experience and remember the full 527-day year. 38,275 copies of SCP-3653-1 are printed and distributed each year on December 44 by The Foundation, in order to ensure that some amount of people each year remain inoculated from and aware of the threat posed by SCP-3653. Informing the affected person that there are only 365 days in a year will cancel out the effect of SCP-3653-1 and render the person susceptible to SCP-3653.

Any person who is not under the protection of SCP-3653-1 will still experience the "extra time". However, as the experimentation in the cover entry suggests, they will retain no memory of doing so.

It is for this reason that mentioning the amount of days in each year to an O5 is strictly forbidden, as O5s follow the 527-day calendar by default.

▞ Addendum

It is regretful that the cover entry prescribes the incineration of most of the copies, and that many of the L4 researchers voluntarily dispose of their copies. However, nothing can be done about this.

Allowing the true nature of SCP-3653 to become common knowledge may lead to panic among the staff. Allowing more people to be protected by SCP-3653-1 increases the risk of them giving dangerous and inimical SCPs more time by extension.

Additionally, if we allowed knowledge of this issue to become widespread, there is a chance that more people would request protection from the entity. If we shield too many people from it, even slightly more than are shielded today, SCP-3653 may notice our feeble barrier and directly attack it.

We do not believe it would stand up to such an assault.

It is the opinion of the majority of the O5 council that the incineration passage lends credibility to the non-restricted containment procedures. We consider this an acceptable loss.

- O5-6

▞ Footnotes

3. "c" refers to the speed of light.
4. the black hole occupying the center of the Milky Way Galaxy.